
== NAME 

git_committer - automated git commits to local and remote
repositories.

This distribution includes executable script, configuration samples
and Chef cookbook for deployment. If you want to use only
+git_committer+ script without Chef deployment, grab it from
+files/default+ directory.

For instructions of how to use cookbook please see section Cookbook
configuration below.

== USE CASES

* Automatic backup of server's configuration and/or frequently changed
  directory;

* Background commits of working directories for user(s) not requiring
  familiarity with version control systems;

* git based backup of data directories, etc. 

== DESCRIPTION

* +git_committer+ configuration file is +config/git_committer.yml+
  relative to the directory where binary is installed

* Each host is configured separately in configuration from sub-tree
  corresponding to host's hostname -- as returned by +uname -n+
  command).

  * Every user in host's sub-tree can have one or more
    repositories

  * Each repository configuration contains attributes:

    - :directory - working directory, i.e. local git repository
      location. Must exist and contain initiated .git directory;

    - :message - commit comment as specified by -m parameter to git
      commit command;

    - :identity - full path to SSH private key file used for
      committing to remote repository.

== USAGE

  ./git_committer [push]

* Optional argument +push+ specifies that push to git +origin+
  repository be made.

* Without +push+ simply does commit to local repository.

=== Crontabs

To automate commits periodically and send commits to git origin put
something similar to the below into crontab:

  */30 * * * * git_committer
  35 01 * * *  git_committer push

This will run local commits every half hour and push to remote once a
day at 01:35am.

=== Sudo

All commands in +git_committer+ are executed using sudo.
+git_committer+ user must have configuration to execute script without
password (NOPASSWD: option in sudoers file).

=== Command line options

Currently supported only one positional parameter 'push' or
'commit'. If none provided then 'commit' is assumed. 'commit' -
commits to local repository, 'push' - pushes to remote branch.

=== Error reporting

Most of the configuration errors or missing configurations are ignored
silently. 

For example, if current host is not configured to run any commits,
then script exits with 0 status without any message. This allows
pushing same configuration and crontab to multiple hosts and avoiding
cron errors from not configured hosts.

Local git repository, SSH key file, git branch all must exist, SSH key
file should have proper permissions. Script doe not check for SSH key
permissions and will fail to run if it's not OK.

=== Cookbook configuration

Cookbook deploys git_committer+, configuration file for git_committer
and creates necessary crontab entries.

==== Cookbook Attributes

* +git_committer[:user]+ -- UNIX user to install and run git_committer

* +git_committer[:dirname]+ -- Directory to install
  git_committer. This sub-directory is created under
  git_committer[:user] home directory.

* +git_committer[:node][:config]+ - node configuration for automatic
  user's config creation. See attributes/default.rb comments for
  details. If this configuration present it will be used as main
  config, if not then provided YAML files in
  +files/default/git_committer.yml+ will be used.

  Note: if this automatic configuration section is present, git
  committer will attempt to create and upload SSH keys to github
  account.

  Node configuration hash has following structure:

  
       { :ubuntu =>                               # +git_committer[:user]+
       # TODO: attribute cleanups directory <-> dirname
         { :directory => '/home/ubuntu/test',     # +git_committer[:dirname]+ 
           :identity => "~/.ssh/git_committer",   # SSH key file name
           
           #
           # Github configuration
           # 
           :github => {
           
                   :repository  => 'git@github.com:user/repo',
                   :user => 'github-user', 
                   :password => 'SECRET',
                   :create_key => true,
                   :branch => 'auto-commit-branch',
                   :setup_branch => true,
           }         
        }
     }



== Author

Dmytro Kovalov, dmytro.kovalov@gmail.com

May,Aug 2012

# LocalWords:  committer config
